Hey Joe. Hey. "What's this all about then? Well we have a problem and it's a very big problem,
and unfortunately most people aren't aware of it. It doesn't matter what your personal views are,
your politics, your religion or where you are, and once you see the problem you can't unsee
it. It's like a one-way door. But thankfully we also have the solution and it's this solution
that I'm so passionate about sharing and it's what makes me just so optimistic for the future.
The challenge I find though is how can anybody fully value a solution unless they understand what
the problem is. And so, I put this presentation together for some friends and it assumes no
knowledge other than just being a human being with some life experience and they encouraged me then
to make this presentation into a video so I can share it with everyone. So, I hope you enjoy.
Welcome to 'What's The Problem?'. So, what is the problem? Too many unfortunately. I probably could
have written twice as many things down on this slide. I think we all have that sense of unease;
we all feel internally that things are not moving in the right direction in our lives,
in the world. Things are becoming harder not easier, and I think for most of us we would
recognize some elements of these things on the screen as touching our lives directly,
or indirectly, and what I'm here today to show you is that all these things may seem
unconnected but they're really not. The primary cause of all of these is the quality of our money.
Now, we're going to do this through a story. So, imagine there's this far off world where
you have hundreds of smart people traveling on a ship and this ship gets wrecked on a deserted
island. This deserted island is so far from everywhere else they're effectively cut off,
but the island is resource rich - it has everything they could possibly need to
rebuild society. Because these people have come from an advanced civilization they know exactly
where they're ultimately going to get back to but now, they're starting again with nothing.
What's also clear is that they need some way of trading with each other once they start to
rebuild so they prioritize deciding on what to use for their new money. And suspend your
disbelief slightly further, in that they have, despite not having anything, the ability to create
whatever monetary system they want with whatever characteristics. So the first question they need
to answer is - what makes good money? There are seven things. So these guys have the ability
to create whatever they want so instead of just creating good money they create the perfect money.
The perfect money is scarce which means it has a fixed Supply forever and is instantly
and costlessly verifiable by everybody. So if everybody can check it whenever
they want at no cost then you can verify for yourself that nobody's creating any extra.
It needs to be portable so you can effortlessly move and store it with negligible costs.
It needs to be divisible, and the perfect money would be infinitely divisible.
It needs to be durable - it can't rot or go off.
It can't deteriorate. So the perfect money exists forever.
It's fungible which means every piece is forever the same as every other piece.
It needs to be acceptable so everyone anywhere can both send and receive.
And the really important one is it needs to be censorship
resistant - you hold it yourself. Nobody can take it away from you
without your permission and no one can stop you sending or receiving.
So this is great, they decide on perfect money. But then there's a disagreement. Two leaders
emerge from within the population. The first, Satoshi, he says,"Well, given these are the
characteristics of perfect money, that's going to be true today, true tomorrow and true forever,
so we should lock them in, and you should never change. Whereas Fiatello - he says,
"Well I get that. I get these characteristics of perfect money and I totally agree *but* what if
there's an emergency? What if we need to change something? What if the people we put in charge of
our money feel like it's not working and need to make an adjustment? I think we should have
the perfect money, but we should also have a Big Red Button which allows someone to press it and
change any of the characteristics if we need to. Of course, no one ever will, but just in case."
This becomes an irreconcilable disagreement so a fairly drastic solution,
but they build a huge wall right down the middle of this island. On
one side they create the currency called Satoshis, which is perfect money always,
and on the other side are Fiatellos, which is perfect money but with the option to change it.
Now this wall is so big it cuts off the communication and the trade between both
sides on the island so effectively they're cut off from one another.