So to begin with nobody has anything on either side of the island so everyone's starting from
zero. Initially people have to be self-sufficient - each person is fishing for their food,
cutting down trees for their wood to make fires and also for houses, and they're also building
their own shelters. Now even though they have perfect money there's very limited trading here
because people are working hard just to satisfy their day-to-day needs across all of these goods.
But people are different. Some people are better at some things than others and so people quickly
realize that if I spend my time focusing on the things I'm good at and reducing the amount of time
I spend on things that I'm poor at then I can contribute more to society. I can increase the
amount of goods I can provide to society in the same amount of time as the average person. So the
wood cutter spends all his time now cutting down wood. He stops fishing, he stops building shelters
and because he's spending his time cutting down wood, he increases the quantity of wood available
to everyone else versus three people spending a third of their time each because he's good at it.
Not only does the increase in the quantity of wood available reduce the price of wood
for everybody on the island the quality is also higher - he's better at doing it.
He produces a higher quality output, so prices fall and quality increases. And not only that,
he's not the only wood cutter, there are multiple wood cutters, so they're all
competing to supply wood to everybody else and they're competing on price and in terms
of quality. And now what happens is because the wood cutter needs other goods to survive,
he has to sell the wood to buy fish, he has to sell the wood to pay for the services of
the home builder. So now everybody is actively trading in this perfect money.
Because processes continue to improve the wood cutter can now satisfy the needs of the rest
of the population for wood in a smaller amount of time. He can then take that time and think
about his own processes, his own Innovations, maybe he can make cutting down wood even more
efficient and if he does that it drives prices lower, it drives quality higher.
Maybe he reaches the end of his Innovation within his wood cutting and then uses the excess money
and excess capital he has to invest in other people. Maybe he lends it to the fisherman
who then builds a boat to increase the amount of fish the fisherman can catch for everybody.
So, what happens over time in a free market with perfect money:
*prices go down forever and quality goes up forever*.
So what people see on both sides of the island is that the purchasing power of their money starts
to increase. Goods cost less tomorrow than they do today so the price of tomorrow is lower. The
purchasing power of both currencies is increasing at about 3% a year and this lifts the quality of
life. Life becomes cheaper and cheaper over time for everybody, not just those people who are most
productive in society. But the key thing is *the money itself is becoming more valuable over time*.
That is, until these guys come along. So now because the society is growing
and the population's growing both sides of the island elect a government. Now it
doesn't matter if the government is left or right, big, small, up,
down doesn't matter they are all the same - when it comes to this.
However well-run the government is, inevitably it will hit a deficit at some point and that means
it's spending more than it's receiving. That could be through mismanagement,
but it could just be through external circumstance like a natural disaster, or something like this.
The causes are not important, but it will happen over the course of time, inevitably.
But now we see a divergence across both sides of the island. Satoshi - he only has
two choices here. To balance the budget, he needs to either raise taxes or cut spending,
or maybe a combination of the two. Whereas Fiatello,
he has exactly the same choices... but he also has a Big Red Button.
The important thing here is they're both up for re-election and Fiatello knows that
if he raises taxes or he cuts spending it's going to cost him votes. So, just this time,
he decides to press The Big Red Button and print a little bit of extra money for the government.
Okay, so what are the consequences? Well, for Satoshi - not great. He cannot hide
those changes from the population because they're paying more in taxes or they're getting less back
from the government from its spending, so he loses the election. But government reduces in
size naturally so now overall the efficiency in the economy has increased but not only this - the
social balance is improved within the economy because people now realize there is no free money.
Taxes need to balance spending. But the important
thing is prices continue to fall and quality continues to increase.
