Now for Fiatello - great news, he gets re-elected
and to start with it's consequence free. He thinks this is the greatest
thing ever - I get re-elected and there's no downside... but something's changed.
So, what's happened? Fiatello's pressed The Big Red Button
which has printed some money for the government which has debased the currency.
So, what does that mean? He's increased the amount of money in the economy overnight,
but he hasn't increased the amount of goods and services available in
the economy overnight so now there's more Fiatellos washing around compared
to yesterday for each piece of the goods and services.
This has three major impacts; the first is a distortion of price signals, the second
is that increases input costs for businesses, and the third - it leads to asset inflation.
That first one, distorting price signals, well, prior to Fiatello pressing The Big
Red Button here all price changes in the economy were purely a function of demand
and supply because this was a free market with perfect money. But what's happened now
is that money has entered the economy, not to everybody equally or even in proportion to the
amount of money everybody holds. The money has entered the economy via the government.
It enters via the government into the accounts of companies and people connected directly or
indirectly to the government. So, what Fiatello starts to see is price increases in certain parts
of the economy. The the signal to everybody else in the economy is that there's an imbalance of
supply and demand just in these sectors. So you see a misallocation of capital by the
entrepreneurs in the market caused by the money printer but not only that, it's human capital,
it's smart people, it's active people who are trying to be productive - they get
sucked in closer to the government and not servicing the rest of the economy.
The second is that business input costs increase. Now every single business in Fiatello's country
has at least a human being and some raw material inputs like energy or even some
harder raw materials. Because the costs of these things have gone up these businesses
now need to try and change something about their product to maintain the small profit
margins that ensure that they can continue in business. The first and most obvious one is
just to pass on the price increase to the customer. The second is to keep the price
the same and the quality the same but just shrink the product so instead of having 100
grams it's now 90 grams but for the same price. Or the third one is to reduce the input costs.
This is where consumer inflation comes from. This is the only source of
consumer inflation - is the money printer, causing businesses to make these changes.
But if a business passes on the price increase outright, or it shrinks the product and the
customer now just needs to buy more of it to satisfy the fact that they needed 100 grams not 90
grams, both of those things reduce affordability. So the population is becoming poorer. They're
going to have less disposable income despite buying the same as what they bought yesterday.
If instead, the business chooses to keep the price the same, the size the same,
but just reduce the cost, the most obvious thing to do is just to fire people which leads
to unemployment. Now there are fewer people with jobs which reduces the overall affordability for
the population in Fiatello's world. But not only that, now the government's got a second
issue it needs to solve - how does it help support all these people who are recently unemployed?
But the most insidious way is for companies to reduce their input *quality* and so what
Fiatello starts to see is there's a rise in obesity across the population because
the food that was previously fresh and had high quality ingredients is replaced with ever lower
quality ingredients and more industrialized sludge. This leads to obesity; it also leads
to a myriad of secondary health issues which causes a Health crisis and now the government
has to step in and figure out how it needs to support all these people who are now unhealthy.
The third is asset inflation. Since Fiatello pressed The Big Red Button
asset prices have been going up. The stock market goes higher and higher and higher,
house prices go higher and higher and higher. He thinks,"I'm some sort of economic genius".
But they're going up in price because he's just created more Fiatellos, so anybody who knows that
there are more Fiatellos in the system of course wouldn't sell their asset for the same as they did
yesterday. They would take into account the fact that there were just more Fiatellos in the system,
so this is what is driving these prices up. But this asset increase is good for the people who own
the assets but not for the people who don't. He has a wealth inequality begin to emerge across the
economy and not just that, because house prices are now more expensive the rent is more expensive.
