So he sees increased levels of homelessness and this increased levels of homelessness,
guess what, requires more government intervention to try and deal with. Now asset prices are flying,
the stock market's on fire, the prevailing perception across the population is,
"Why would I not invest? Why would I just keep the money? I should be buying the stock market,
I should be invested, I should be buying a second home to rent out, I should be buying speculative
assets because they never go down, they just go up. If I don't invest, I'm a fool." Because
the assets are going up the banks are pushing ever more leverage for people. Pushing bigger
and bigger mortgages to individuals, loans to companies but now that house prices have gone up
and now that everyone has more debt, at the same time as families are struggling with affordability
of day-to-day life, it's now much harder to buy a house. So families where previously
they could have one main earner and afford to buy a house with a mortgage can't anymore.
You now need both parents working. Both parents working to afford the mortgage and afford to live,
and when that happens people spend less time together. You start to see the breakdown of
the nuclear family. They spend less time with their children. They can afford to have fewer
children. now because you have declining birth rates Fiatello starts to see a change
in his demographics across the population. Fewer children are being born whereas the
older generations are living longer, and he now starts to realize that the promises he
made to these older generations about being able to retire at a certain age or having a
good quality of life, or defined income, in their retirement can't be delivered upon.
For those not lucky enough to be able to buy a house who are maybe stuck renting,
whereas before they could think about renting the same place for 3 years or 5 years - because
the rent goes up too much every year, now they're thinking about one year maybe two
years. You're planning less for the future maybe you're putting off getting married,
putting off having children. You start to prioritize today at the expense of tomorrow.
People see that saving their Fiatellos never gets them anywhere because the asset prices are going
up too quickly - they'll never be able to buy a house. So if you'll never be able to buy a house
then prioritize 'living your best life' and going on holiday and spending more, enjoying yourself.
But for those not fortunate to be in this position for those that every day has a struggle,
feeding themselves and their families, housing themselves and their families - they're stuck
on a treadmill of decline. Every day is harder which leads to a growth in addiction,
various forms of addiction, including opioids across Fiatello's Island which
leads to yet more of a Health crisis and yet more intervention from the government.
And all of this leads to a mental health crisis across the population.
Now the government finds itself in a position where because it pressed The Big Red Button it's
created a whole range of secondary issues that now it needs to step in and try and solve. Because it
has to step in and try and solve these things it means the government needs to divert more capital
to these areas of the economy which, again, is a greater misallocation of capital which pulls more
entrepreneurs into the wrong parts of the economy through the distortion of the price signals.
Between the increased leverage in the economy driven by the Banks and the
misallocation of capital it sows the seeds of the next emergency... and Fiatello has
only one choice - and that's to press The Big Red Button again!
Now he's starting to realize that actually this wasn't consequence free.
Now he's lurching from crisis to ever bigger crisis. He presses The Big Red Button which
debases the currency, which leads to bigger government and more involvement in everything.
And now not only is the government bigger but the government has spawned a series
of parasitic Industries attached to it. Big Pharma who are increasingly
involved with the government to try to deal with the symptoms,
but not the causes, of the various Health Crises. Never incentivized is to actually
cure a patient just to treat them long term because a healthy customer is a lost customer.
Big Food pushes for ever lower food standards across the economy.
The Military-Industrial Complex pushes for ever
greater spending on defence both at home and on foreign shores.
Wall Street are up to their eyeballs in debt and now so leveraged that the government wants
to protect them. They can't be allowed to fail - because if the banks fail,
the population loses their money, the government falls.
The government also continues to make unproductive investments.
Investments trying to deal with the secondary issues it's created but
also investments driven from whatever political ideology the government has.
