All of these things are effectively now *crony corporatism*. It's very hard to see where the
government ends, and these industries begin. The success of the government is deeply intertwined
with the success of the industries. These industries start to ask the government to
become regulated. "You need to regulate us to protect the public". But this regulation all
it does is make competition harder. The one, two, three companies in each of these areas
and now very very close to the government. They supply the people for the regulator,
when the regulators end their tenure, they go back and work for these companies. It stops
smaller companies coming in and competing with them to then supply the government on better
terms with higher quality product. So quality starts to decline and prices start to rise which,
of course, is great news for these companies because profit margins go up.
What happens then is the media gets captured. The government is teetering to maintain social
stability. It's now protecting these industries at the expense of the population rather than
the other way around and because of this social balance that it needs to maintain it can't allow
Free Speech, dissent, alternative opinions or questioning of anything
that undermines the legitimacy of the government in anyway. Not only that,
the biggest advertisers for the media companies are companies connected to the government,
so the media companies increasingly don't want to upset their advertisers.
When you have a captured media and a military industrial complex fomenting strife on foreign
shores you get the creation of the Forever Wars. And the wars themselves are actively
supported by the Fiatello population because all they
see in their media is that "we have to do this because it's the right thing to do."
And, between the Forever Wars and the banking system bailouts and the excessive debt it leads
to the next emergency but this time it's just so much bigger, and the only choice he has is
to press The Big Red Button again. But this time it's different. It's a massive erosion
of trust. Every time he presses the button more and more people become aware of what is happening,
and this goes round and round and round until something breaks.
And now Fiatello is starting to get quite worried.
So what's happening to the money? Well, instead of increasing 3% a year in purchasing power he's
now losing 7% a year because he's printing 10% a year of extra money. Not only that,
he's undermining the productivity in the economy by distorting all the price signals.
So what happens to the Fiatello island population?
Well, the poor who are on fixed wages, have very low-income security
and no assets - they can't win. They just get poorer every single year.
For the middle earners, who have fixed salaries and mixed income security - they're not the
first to be fired - they often have a home, but they can never sell the home and realize
any gain because you've got to live somewhere, if you sell one home you've got to buy another
home. You might have some Investments, but they are becoming the new poor.
Well surely the wealthy are doing well? Their income is largely from asset yields
from operating businesses or investing. Their income security is high because they can't get
fired but for them it's death-by-a-thousand-cuts. They see their wealth as a number continue to
increase but they feel like they're getting poorer. Life continues to get harder and
that's because the rate at which they're earning money, their yield on their assets,
is below the rate which Fiatello is printing money so they're slowly having their wealth
siphoned away by the politically connected. Those that are government funded and have fully
insulated income security and, perversely, their income goes up and becomes even more
valuable as society continues to decline because the government needs more and more intervention.
It's really just industrialized theft at this point from everyone else in society.
But now so much time has passed that the wall down the middle of the island starts to crack,
and it starts to crack in such a way that both people and money
can start to flow from one side to the other.
So, on the one side you've got the Satoshis increasing their purchasing power at 3% a year,
on the other side you've got the Fiatellos that are losing 7% purchasing power every year.
So, what happens and why?
What Fiatello starts to see is that money and people start to leave
because they don't trust their ability to save using Fiatellos, they want Satoshis.
Okay, so this sums it up: on a Fiatello standard your money is stealing from you
whereas on a Satoshi standard the whole world is working 24/7 to increase your purchasing power.