But now the Escape valve is open. People realize they can't save in Fiatellos so
they start selling Fiatellos to buy Satoshis, so the Fiatellos decline further in value,
triggering yet more budgetary and currency crises for Fiatello to deal with... and the
only choice is to press The Big Red Button again! But this time printing money is not
enough because value is leaking out of Fiatello's side of the island. He needs to change another
characteristic of perfect money which is to remove the censorship resistant nature of it.
The Fiatello population used to be able to hold the money themselves,
now Fiatello says you're no longer allowed to hold it yourselves. You have to put it in the banks.
The banks are going to hold everybody's money. The population now feel that they are guilty
until proven innocent for making any transaction - the banks will check every transaction to 'protect
you' which means when people are trying to buy certain things, including Satoshis the
banks now say "No... it's because of this, it's because of that, it's because of the
other". He restricts the flow of capital out of Fiatello's side of the island. He may even just
create explicit capital controls - "You're now no longer allowed to buy Satoshis at all". But
people always find a way and more and more people are waking up to what is happening, and the cycle
continues. The important thing is the wealth, and the people flee to the uncorrupted money.
Now Fiatello is beginning to really panic
So where does it end for Fiatello? Well, if he's lucky, with sustained inflation allowing
the government to inflate away its debts and slowly siphon away the wealth of the public.
This may even border on hyperinflation. I say "lucky" because it's very hard to
do that and maintain social cohesion and something is likely to go wrong.
It will *definitely* be asset seizures. Now that all the money is held in the banks one
day Fiatello will decree that "we're all in it together" and the banks will hand over a
proportion of that capital to the government. Just like in Cyprus in 2013 - if you held over
€100,000 in the bank, overnight 45% of that went to the government. The public
was effectively bailed in to bailout the banks and the government from their own mismanagement.
It also happened in the US in 1933. They made gold holdings for the individual illegal,
and this lasted for almost 40 years. If you held more than $100 of gold and you were caught:
$10,000 fine or 10 years in prison, and this was when $10,000 was a *huge* amount of money.
Fiatello sees a rise in political extremism on both ends of the spectrum. The government
never explains to the population where these problems are coming from. They don't tell
them it's because of the money printing via The Big Red Button. They control the
media. The government is protective of itself. They don't tell the population
the truth. They don't help the population join the dots. They don't explain the link
from The Big Red Button to the issues. They blame it on the 'greedy businessmen' or 'the
billionaires' or 'that foreign dictator' or this or that. Then what happens is,
people ask for more help and more support from the government to deal with all of these issues and so
the only solution is the government's involved in everything. At every step of this journey
the solution to all the problems has always been *more government involvement* and so the people
see these problems and vote for more government involvement to solve them... or something worse.
But in all scenarios people want to hold Satoshis and not Fiatellos.
So if we go back to that list of seven characteristics of perfect money - Fiatello
only changed two of them. The other five are still exactly the same and look where he ended up.
Now the reveal (and some of you may be slightly ahead of
me here). The US Dollar is just a terrible version of the Fiatello.
The US Dollar is corrupted on the same two key issues that
the Fiatellos were but on the other five it's materially worse as well.
In terms of portability - it's easy to carry,
easy to pay but it's not great for merchants. You pay instantly but the merchant doesn't get
the money for multiple days and that's if there was no fraud or chargebacks.
It's divisible but only to a point and removes the ability to do microtransactions which will
unlock potentially completely different economic models.
It's durable, in digital form, but we have a cash component, and that cash component is constantly
undermined. The notes are reprinted in terms of design every 15 or 20 years so there's no
ability for an individual to save outside the banking system. If you put notes under your bed
or under the floorboards and leave them 25 years they're worthless. Those types of notes have
gone out of circulation, so you need to take the notes every 15 or 20 years to the bank hand them
in and get new notes. They recentralize everything periodically, out of choice.
