They're fungible which means every dollar is the same as every other dollar... until it's
not. Some countries around the world have already introduced what are known
as CBDCs - which is central bank digital currency, but effectively it's programmable
money. A specific dollar may have an expiration date - you need to spend it before this period
of time elapses or else it disappears. Or a dollar may have only specific use
cases - you must spend this dollar on X or Y, or you must not spend this dollar on ABC.
The Dollar is very acceptable around the world, but you can't pay with it everywhere
and typically most national currencies are only acceptable in their own country.
And the US has a major Fiatello problem.
This is the budget for 2024 - the budget not the actuals which of course were worse -a deficit of
almost $2 trillion on a spend just over $6 trillion. That's a loss in one year. Now to
put that in context they'd have to double the amount of individual income taxes for
everybody in the US just to balance that and on the cost side they can make some
improvements but there are some key things there you just cannot remove like the debt interest.
And the consequences? Well, this is a chart of the amount of money in the system in dollars
and the amount of debt issued by the US government over time. Now I've labelled 1971 on here because
that's when the US came unilaterally off the gold standard. Prior to 1971 you could give
your dollars back and receive gold in return. Nixon took the US off the gold standard and
every currency in the world followed and since then it's allowed the US to print unlimited
amounts of money to satisfy its own needs. The red chart on the left-hand axis shows that amount of
money is now $22 trillion and on the right hand side you've got the US government debt which,
even a month later, this chart is now out of date - it's now $36 trillion!
And this doesn't include the unfunded liabilities - the amount of money the
US government has committed to pay at some point in the future through Social Security,
Medicare, Medicaid etc but it hasn't had to write the cheque yet. Now depending on
how you calculate that it's between $50 and $200 trillion, on top of 36 trillion of debt!
The only way to solve that is more money printing. The money printer
is systematically destroying the purchasing power of the Dollar.
Now you may think I have something against the Dollar. I absolutely don't! The Dollar
is the *best* that we have. I would love to be able to use the Dollar, as would the
vast majority of people around the world but unfortunately most people just aren't as lucky.
This is the performance of all the other currencies versus the Dollar
over the last 10 years. Some have near enough disappeared completely and some absolutely have,
they've ceased to exist. The people who saved their economic
energy in those currencies have seen them vanish.
The unfortunate reality here as the wonderful Lyn Alden repeatedly says
Is "Nothing Stops This Train". There is no way out
for governments. The only solution is to keep pressing The Big Red Button.
And so, the conclusion is a quote from Hayek who was an economist of the Austrian School,
"The history of government management of money has except for a few short
happy periods been one of incessant fraud and deception." And he said this in 1988.
Now, that would all be pretty depressing if there wasn't a solution but thankfully there is.
The only solution here is *the separation of money
and state*. The government cannot be allowed access to a Big Red Button.
And Hayek again and this time the quote is from 1984. "I don't believe we shall ever
have good money again until we take it out of the hands of government,
we can't take it violently out of their hands. All we can do is by some sly,
roundabout way introduce something they just can't stop". Brilliant quote.
So, I hope now with these links between The Big Red Button and
the money printer and all of these issues that we see in our lives today
that it's now much clearer that if we can fix the money we'll fix the world.
The good news here, and this is the best news,
is that Satoshis are real and even Fiatello is now a convert.
The solution is Bitcoin.
One Bitcoin is 100 million Satoshis in the same way that $1 is 100 cents
Now, you may feel you know about Bitcoin already
because of something you've been told by friends or you read in the media.
I would encourage you to start again.
When we derive our information from the media or from people who have derived
their information from the media, and that media is connected to the people who own and benefit
from the money printer, it tends not to be necessarily the most accurate information.
So don't trust, verify.
